
IMPORTANT:
This product contains trademarks and/or copyrighted works of Cyan.
All rights reserved by Cyan.
This product is not official and is not endorsed by Cyan. 


A VMW Production
by Vince `deater` Weaver, 2023

Prolog:
	A desperate man fleeing a dangerous situation falls
	in a starry void.  He escapes by touching a magical
	"linking" book that transports him away.  The book
	continues falling and the man worries who might find it.

Story:
	You are the one who found the book!  Throwing caution
	to the wind you touch the book and end up on Myst island.

	On the island two brothers appear trapped inside books
	of their own.  They are a bit evasive about how they
	ended up in this situation.  The somewhat conniving
	brother asks you to find red pages and put then in his book.
	The somewhat unstable brother begs you to find blue pages
	and put them in *his* book.

	You solve puzzles and travel to four different fantastic worlds
	(unfortunately not on this cartridge due to size limitations).
	You bring back red and blue pages and put them in the brothers books.
	They both want to be freed.  Who do you trust?

	You also found a torn note while exploring that when put together
	says:

         MARKER SWIT  |  CH VAULT ACCESS
                    |
	       ISL  |  AND OF MYST

   THE VAULT IS LOC  |  ATED IN VERY PLAIN VIEW ON
     THE ISLAND OF M  |  YST AND ACCESS CAN BE
      ACHIEVED VERY  |  EASILY IF THE SIMPLE
 INSTRUCTIONS ARE  |  FOLLOWED.  FIRST, LOCATE
EACH OF THE MARKER  |  SWITCHES ON THE ISLAND.
 TURN EVERY ONE OF T  |  HESE SWITCHES TO THE
"ON" POSITION.  TH  |  EN GO TO THE DOCK AND,
AS A FINAL STEP, TU  |  RN THE MARKER SWITCH
      THERE TO TH  |  E "OFF" POSITION.

	This should be enough to finish your adventure!

Use the joystick to move the pointer.
The pointer will change to indicate if you can move forward, left, right, or
	if an action is available.
Click the button to move or do an action.

If you appear stuck, carefully investigate the screen to see if there
are action areas you are missing.

Good Luck! 




Hints:
	What do I do first?  
		(Explore)
		(Then maybe see the ripped note mentioned earlier
			in this document and do what it says)

	How many marker switches are there?   (There are 8)

	What's a marker switch?
		(a brown box with a blue and yellow switch on top)

	How do I turn these switches "on"?
		(click on them.  When the blue handle is down
			it is on, when it's up it's off)

	Do I need to do the clock puzzle to get to one of the marker
		switches?   (Yes)

	How do I activate the clock puzzle?
		(click on the controls to the left under the tree)

	How do I figure out the clock puzzle?
		(There is a hint in the library)

	How do I find the hint in the library?
		(Try poking things)
		(What do the picture frames do? Look around after
			poking them)
		(The blue one had significance in the original game
		but no room for that here.  But see what the others do)
		(You'll need to go behind the bookshelf and take the
		elevator)
		(Press the blue button to activate the elevator)

	I am stuck in the library!
		(When the bookshelf opens, the front door closes...)
		(See if you can close the bookshelf again)

	I entered the time on the clock but nothing happened!
		(You have to press the red button)

	How do I find the white page?
		(See the hint earlier in the manual on the torn note)

	I have the white page, now what?
		(Have you tried putting the colored pages into the books?)
		(Have you tried looking into the book after that?)

	What does "158" mean?
		(Have you tried poking around the library?)
		(What about the bookshelf?)

	What do I do with the weird grid pattern?
		(Have you tried going into the green fireplace?)
		(Enter the pattern and press the button on the left
			to activate)

	What's with the green book?
		(Someone inside seems to be asking for a white page)
		(Maybe find a white page before going to see him)

	I don't understand the ending!
		Welcome to the club in 1991.
		If you are trapped in a red or blue book, you shouldn't
			have trusted that brother.
		If you are trapped with the man w/o a white page, it's because
			the white page was ripped out of his Myst book
			and he needed it back to fix it.
			So now you are stuck with him and the broken book
			and can't get back to Myst.
		If you got the "good" ending, the man went back and
			zapped the books of his no-good sons.
			(how cruel this is depends on how many of the
			sequels you've played)
			The man is writing into his book in an 
			attempt to save the world his wife is currently
			trapped on.
			He says you can link back to Myst and hang out there.
			Eventually in the sequel he'll send you to Riven
			to help rescue his wife.

